SOURCE: https://www.liberty.edu/residence-life/housing/eligibility/
SOURCE_TYPE: university_page
TITLE: Housing Eligibility

Housing Eligibility

Find out what kind of housing you are eligible for as a student at Liberty University.

On-Campus Housing

You must complete Financial Check-In prior to occupancy and agree to the terms and policies outlined in the On-Campus Housing Contract (PDF).

Liberty University requires all unmarried students under 21 years old to live on campus. On-campus residents must be currently enrolled in a residential program and attending classes on campus.

Students who are 25 or older (at any time during the semester) or are married are not permitted to live on campus. All rooms are assigned on a first-come, first-served basis.

All on-campus students are subject to the rules, regulations, and policies contained in the Liberty Way and the On-Campus Living Guide (PDF). For more information on selecting your housing, visit Housing Selection.

Residential Housing Disclaimer
The university reserves the right at any time to (a) alter, change or cancel a housing assignment; (b) change any room assignment or rate; (c) enter residences during reasonable hours at your request or for routine maintenance, inspections, repairs or housekeeping duties; (d) enter residences at any time for an emergency; (e) control the residences in the event of an emergency; (f) terminate the housing assignment for violation of University policies and regulations, for health or social reasons, or for other reasons deemed sufficient by the university.

Institutional Liability
The university will not be responsible for damage to or loss of personal belongings which are a result of fire, wind, water, insects, rodents, vandalism or theft. However, when damage or loss is reported, the university will take reasonable steps to attempt to resolve the problem. Students are encouraged to make sure personal belongings are covered by their parent’s homeowner’s policy or a renter’s insurance policy.

Student Insurance (PDF)
Off-Campus Living

While we affirm the value of on-campus living, we also recognize that certain seasons of life may call for a different living arrangement. Students qualify to live off campus if:

A student is 21 years of age in the academic year (August 1 to May 31) that they are applying for, OR
A student is 20 years of age in the academic year (August 1 to May 31) that they are applying for, have a 3.0 GPA, and have achieved at least 52 academic hours prior to the semester for which they are applying to live off campus.
Students who do not meet the initial criteria may be approved to live off campus under the following conditions…

The student will be living with a parent or parents who are full-time residents of the Lynchburg area (60-mile radius of Lynchburg), OR
The student will be living with a brother or sister who is at least 21 years of age.
The above criteria are the sole criteria for qualifying to live off campus – no other conditions or circumstances are applicable for off-campus approval. If a student is 21 years of age, their off-campus application will be automatically approved. If a student does not meet the age limit of 21, their application will be automatically appealed to the Director of Housing for review.

Any student who accumulates 18 or more reprimands within a semester might be required to remain on campus even if they meet the age requirement for living off-campus.

Off-campus students are subject to the same rules, regulations, and policies contained in the Liberty Way, except for those that specifically pertain to residence hall living.

For more information on the off-campus application process, visit Housing Selection.

To learn more about the foundation for our housing policies, read our Philosophy of Living (PDF) document.

Off-Campus Agreement
Off-campus students are responsible for all information contained in the Off-Campus Living Guide. The university defines an off-campus student as one who resides within driving distance of the campus and attends classes weekly during the fall, spring, and/or summer sessions.

You are responsible for your own off-campus housing arrangements. Single co-ed living arrangements are not in keeping with Liberty’s philosophy and purpose. Exceptions to this policy are for immediate family members only (brothers/sisters).

You must update your local address and telephone number on your ASIST account within seven days from the beginning of classes. Any changes in this information must be reported to the university within seven calendar days.

If you move off-campus during the first three weeks of the semester (beginning with the first day of check-in), the housing fee will be charged at a weekly rate. There will be no rebate for the room portion of the housing fee after the first three weeks. The meals portion will be rebated at a flat rate regardless of room location. Contact Student Accounts to find out your total refund.

Approval to live off-campus must be obtained from the Office of Residence Life before signing a lease. Any unmarried student, under the age of 25, who receives 30 or more reprimands while living off-campus may be required to live on campus or with a parent the following semester of attendance.

Any falsification of information on this application or subsequent paperwork may result in automatic denial.

Off-Campus Housing Resource
Office of Commuter Student Life