SOURCE: https://www.liberty.edu/residence-life/housing/
SOURCE_TYPE: university_page
TITLE: Liberty Housing Selection / Apply to Live Off Campus

Housing Selection

Housing Selection for each academic year opens in the Spring for both new and returning students. To start housing selection, visit the Res Life Portal below.

Enter the Res Life Portal
For more information on eligibility for living on campus, please visit our Housing Eligibility webpage.

For assistance navigating the selection process in the Res Life Portal, view our On-Campus Housing Selection tutorial.

If you would like to set up your roommate group prior to selecting housing, view our Roommate Selection tutorial.

Once you have completed Housing Selection, you may view your current housing assignment and roommate(s) under ‘View Room Details’ in the Res Life Portal. If you need to make a change, learn more about our Room Change and Room Swap requests.

Or, to find out more about our different residence halls, scroll to the bottom of this page to learn more.


New Student Dates
+

Returning Student Dates
+

Roommate Selection FAQ
+
Apply to Live Off-Campus
For all the details on off-campus living and eligibility, please visit our Housing Eligibility webpage. After reviewing eligibility details, you may submit an off-campus application in the Housing Selection section of the Res Life Portal. If you meet the necessary qualifications, your application will be automatically approved. If you do not meet the qualifications, it will be automatically appealed to the Director of Housing for review. Please note that students are only allowed to submit one off-campus request per semester, so be sure to include all relevant details in your application. Applications will be available in the Res Life Portal on the following dates for each semester:

Spring 2026: Open Now
Fall 2026: Open Now
If you need assistance, view our Off-Campus Application tutorial (PDF | video), or contact our office with questions!

Enter the Res Life Portal
Room Renewals
Room Renewals give you the opportunity to keep your current room for the 2026-2027 academic year! Room Renewal requests are currently closed. 

Please note that some of our rooms are reserved for specific uses. Hall leadership, academic communities, and athletic teams have rooms that may not be available for Room Renewal requests.

For questions and answers, see our Room Renewal Q&A

Residence Halls
Residential Commons

Residential Commons (001, 002, 003, & 004)

Housing with two-person rooms, private baths

The Hill

The Hill (017-023)

Traditional residence hall community

East Campus

East Campus (140-194)

Premier apartment-style housing location

The Quads

The Quads (029-032)

Two-person rooms in apartment-style suites

No elevator

South Tower

South Tower (033)

Traditional residence hall community

Elevator accessible

The Circle

The Circle (025-028)

Traditional residence hall community

No elevator

Residential Annex

Residential Annex (A-D)

Hotel-style living with two-person rooms, private baths

No elevator

North Suites

North Suites

Suite-style living with two-person rooms, private baths

Elevator accessible

